docs/Filepath-Parent-Type-Stats-Permissions.md, before:

# Filepath Status, Types, Existence, Permissions, etc.

## Associated Path Methods

- <a href = "#exists">exists()</a>
- <a href = "#existsSync">existsSync()</a>
- <a href = "#isDirectory">isDirectory()</a>
- <a href = "#isDirectorySync">isDirectorySync()</a>
- <a href = "#isFile">isFile()</a>
- <a href = "#isFileSync">isFileSync()</a>
- <a href = "#isSymbolicLink">isSymbolicLink()</a>
- <a href = "#isSymbolicLinkSync">isSymbolicLinkSync()</a>
- <a href = "#isSocket">isSocket()</a>
- <a href = "#isSocketSync">isSocketSync()</a>
- <a href = "#isFIFO">isFIFO()</a>
- <a href = "#isFIFOSync">isFIFOSync()</a>
- <a href = "#access">access()</a>
- <a href = "#accessSync">accessSync()</a>
- <a href = "#readLink">readLink()</a>
- <a href = "#readLinkSync">readLinkSync()</a>
- <a href = "#parent">parent()</a>
- <a href = "#containsImmediateChild">containsImmediateChild()</a>
- <a href = "#containsImmediateChildSync">containsImmediateChildSync()</a>

## File Structure Example for this API

The following hypothetical folder structure will be used as a demonstration of the API.

```
Example
├── Folder_A
│   ├── File_A1.txt
│   ├── File_A2.txt
│   └── File_B1_Symlink -> c:/Users/JohnDoe/Example/Folder_B/File_B1.json
└── Folder_B
    ├── File_B1.json
    └── File_B2.json
```

### exists() <a id = "exists"></a>

**Asynchronously** returns a boolean of whether the underlying filepath exists.

- Returns:
  - `Promise<boolean>` - true or false outcome of whether the filepath exists in the system.

```
import Path from "pathlib-js"
const ES5CompatibilityWrapper = async () => {
  const fp1 = new Path("C:\\Users\\JohnDoe\\Example\\FolderA\\File_A1.txt");
  const fp2 = new Path("C:\\Users\\JohnDoe\\Example\\FolderA\\File9001.txt");
  console.log(await fp1.exists());
  console.log(await fp2.exists());
};

ES5CompatibilityWrapper();

> true
> false
```

### existsSync() <a id = "existsSync"></a>

**Synchronously** returns a boolean of whether the underlying filepath exists.

- Returns:
  - `boolean` - true or false outcome of whether the filepath exists in the system.

```
import Path from "pathlib-js"
const fp1 = new Path("C:\\Users\\JohnDoe\\Example\\FolderA\\File_A1.txt");
const fp2 = new Path("C:\\Users\\JohnDoe\\Example\\FolderA\\File9001.txt");
console.log(fp1.existsSync());
console.log(fp2.existsSync());

> true
> false
```

### isDirectory() <a id = "isDirectory"></a>

**Asynchronously** returns a boolean of whether the underlying filepath is a directory()

- Returns:
  - `Promise<boolean>` - true or false outcome of whether the filepath is an existing directory.

```
import Path from "pathlib-js"
const ES5CompatibilityWrapper = async () => {
  const fp1 = new Path("C:\\Users\\JohnDoe\\Example\\FolderA");
  const fp2 = new Path("C:\\Users\\JohnDoe\\Example\\FolderA\\File_A1.txt");
  console.log(await fp1.isDirectory());
  console.log(await fp2.isDirectory());
};

ES5CompatibilityWrapper();

> true
> false
```

### isDirectorySync() <a id = "isDirectorySync"></a>

**Synchronously** returns a boolean of whether the underlying filepath exists.

- Returns:
  - `boolean` - true or false outcome of whether the filepath is an existing directory.

```
import Path from "pathlib-js"
const fp1 = new Path("C:\\Users\\JohnDoe\\Example\\FolderA");
const fp2 = new Path("C:\\Users\\JohnDoe\\Example\\FolderA\\File_A1.txt");
console.log(fp1.isDirectorySync());
console.log(fp2.isDirectorySync());

> true
> false
```

### isFile() <a id = "isFile"></a>

**Asynchronously** returns a boolean of whether the underlying filepath isFile.

- Returns:
  - `Promise<boolean>` - true or false outcome of whether the filepath is an existing file.

```
import Path from "pathlib-js"
const ES5CompatibilityWrapper = async () => {
  const fp1 = new Path("C:\\Users\\JohnDoe\\Example\\FolderA\\File_A1.txt");
  const fp2 = new Path("C:\\Users\\JohnDoe\\Example\\FolderA");
  console.log(await fp1.isFile());
  console.log(await fp2.isFile());
};

ES5CompatibilityWrapper();

> true
> false
```

### isFileSync() <a id = "isFileSync"></a>

**Synchronously** returns a boolean of whether the underlying filepath is a file.

- Returns:
  - `boolean` - true or false outcome of whether the filepath is an existing file.

```
import Path from "pathlib-js"
const fp1 = new Path("C:\\Users\\JohnDoe\\Example\\FolderA\\File_A1.txt");
const fp2 = new Path("C:\\Users\\JohnDoe\\Example\\FolderA");
console.log(fp1.isFileSync());
console.log(fp2.isFileSync());

> true
> false
```

### isSymbolicLink([verbose]) <a id = "isSymbolicLink"></a>

⚠️ **IT IS STRONGLY ADVISED TO NOT USE THIS METHOD ON WINDOWS OS.** ⚠️

**Asynchronously** returns a boolean of whether the underlying filepath is a symlink.

- Parameters:

  - `verbose` -- `boolean` -- On Windows systems, whether to verbosly warn about the potential inaccuracy of this method. Defaults to true.

- Returns:
  - `Promise<boolean>` - true or false outcome of whether the filepath is a symbolic link.

```
import Path from "pathlib-js"
const ES5CompatibilityWrapper = async () => {
  const fp1 = new Path("C:\\Users\\JohnDoe\\Example\\FolderB\\File_B1.json");
  const fp2 = new Path("C:\\Users\\JohnDoe\\Example\\FolderA\\File_B1_Symlink.symlink");
  console.log(await fp1.isSymbolicLink());
  console.log(await fp2.isSymbolicLink());
};

ES5CompatibilityWrapper();

> true
> false
```

### isSymbolicLinkSync([verbose]) <a id = "isSymbolicLinkSync"></a>

⚠️ **IT IS STRONGLY ADVISED TO NOT USE THIS METHOD ON WINDOWS OS.** ⚠️

**Synchronously** returns a boolean of whether the underlying filepath is a symlink.

- Parameters:

  - `verbose` -- `boolean` -- On Windows systems, whether to verbosly warn about the potential inaccuracy of this method. Defaults to true.

- Returns:
  - `boolean` - true or false outcome of whether the filepath is a symbolic link.

```
import Path from "pathlib-js"
const fp1 = new Path("C:\\Users\\JohnDoe\\Example\\FolderB\\File_B1.json");
const fp2 = new Path("C:\\Users\\JohnDoe\\Example\\FolderA\\File_B1_Symlink.symlink");
console.log(fp1.isSymbolicLinkSync());
console.log(fp2.isSymbolicLinkSync());

> true
> false
```

### isSocket() <a id = "isSocket"></a>

**Asynchronously** returns a boolean of whether the underlying filepath points to a socket.

- Returns:
  - `Promise<boolean>` - true or false outcome of whether the filepath is a socket file.

### isSocketSync() <a id = "isSocketSync"></a>

**Synchronously** returns a boolean of whether the underlying filepath points to a socket.

- Returns:
  - `boolean` - true or false outcome of whether the filepath is a socket file.

### isFIFO() <a id = "isFIFO"></a>

**Asynchronously** returns a boolean of whether the underlying filepath points to a first-in-first-out queue.

- Returns:
  - `Promise<boolean>` - true or false outcome of whether the filepath is a FIFO queue.

### isFIFOSync() <a id = "isFIFOSync"></a>

**Synchronously** returns a boolean of whether the underlying filepath points to a first-in-first-out queue.

- Returns:
  - `boolean` - true or false outcome of whether the filepath is a FIFO queue.

### access([mode]) <a id = "access"></a>

**Asynchronously** ascertains the permissions the current process has on the underlying filepath.

- Parameters:

  - `mode` -- `number` -- A NodeJS `fs.constants` number to check for a particular permission or union of permissions. Defaults to `undefined`.

- Returns:
  - `Promise<boolean | AccessResult>` - If `mode` was provided, returns a boolean of whether the underlying path was the indicated permission. Otherwise, returns a `AccessResult` Object which has the following properties:
    - `canRead` -- `boolean` - Whether the current process has read access to the underlying filepath.
    - `canWrite` -- `boolean` - Whether the current process has write access to the underlying filepath.
    - `canExecute` -- `boolean` - Whether the underlying filepath can be executed by the current process.

### accessSync([mode]) <a id = "accessSync"></a>

**Synchronously** ascertains the permissions the current process has on the underlying filepath.

- Parameters:

  - `mode` -- `number` -- A NodeJS `fs.constants` number to check for a particular permission or union of permissions. Defaults to `undefined`.

- Returns:
  - `boolean | AccessResult` - If `mode` was provided, returns a boolean of whether the underlying path was the indicated permission. Otherwise, returns a `AccessResult` Object which has the following properties:
    - `canRead` -- `boolean` - Whether the current process has read access to the underlying filepath.
    - `canWrite` -- `boolean` - Whether the current process has write access to the underlying filepath.
    - `canExecute` -- `boolean` - Whether the underlying filepath can be executed by the current process.

### readLink() <a id = "readLink"></a>

**Asynchronously** determines the filepath that a symlink is pointing at. 
**It is assumed that the underlying filepath invoking this method is a symlink. An error will be thrown if this is not the case.**

- Returns:
  - `Promise<Path>` - Returns the filepath that the symlink is pointing to, as a `Path` instance.

```
import Path from "pathlib-js"
const ES5CompatibilityWrapper = async () => {
  const filePointedTo = new Path("C:\\Users\\JohnDoe\\Example\\Folder_A\\File_A1.txt");
  const symlinkPath = await filePointedTo.makeSymlink(
    "C:\\Users\\JohnDoe\\Example\\Folder_B\\SymlinkExample.symlink",
    true
  );
  console.log((await symlinkPath.readLink()).path === filePointedTo.path);
};
ES5CompatibilityWrapper();

> true
```

### readLinkSync() <a id = "readLinkSync"></a>

**Synchronously** determines the filepath that a symlink is pointing at. 
**It is assumed that the underlying filepath invoking this method is a symlink. An error will be thrown if this is not the case.**

- Returns:
  - `Path` - Returns the filepath that the symlink is pointing to, as a `Path` instance.

```
import Path from "pathlib-js"
const filePointedTo = new Path("C:\\Users\\JohnDoe\\Example\\Folder_A\\File_A1.txt");
const symlinkPath = filePointedTo.makeSymlinkSync(
  "C:\\Users\\JohnDoe\\Example\\Folder_B\\SymlinkExample.symlink",
  true
);
console.log(symlinkPath.readLinkSync().path === filePointedTo.path);

> true
```


### parent() <a id = "parent"></a>

Retrieves the parent directory.

- Returns:
  - `Path` - The parent directory as a Path instance.

```
import Path from "pathlib-js"
const fp1 = new Path("C:\\Users\\JohnDoe\\Example\\FolderA\\File_A1.txt");
console.log(fp1.parent().path);

> "C:/Users/JohnDoe/Example/FolderA"
```

### containsImmediateChild(child) <a id = "containsImmediateChild"></a>

**Asynchronously** checks whether an indicated basename string or Path instance is a child path of the current Path instance.

- Parameters:

  - `child` -- `string | Path` -- Either a basename to search (when type is detected as a string) or a Path instance of the expected child.

- Returns:
  - `Promise<Path | false>` - Returns `false` if no such child exists within the underlying filepath, otherwise returns the child as a `Path` instance.

```
import Path from "pathlib-js"
const ES5CompatibilityWrapper = async () => {
  const fp1 = new Path("C:\\Users\\JohnDoe\\Example\\Folder_A");
  console.log(await fp1.containsImmediateChild("File_90012321.txt"));
  console.log(await fp1.containsImmediateChild("File_A1.txt"));
};
ES5CompatibilityWrapper();

> false
> Path {
  path: 'C:/Users/JohnDoe/Example/Folder_A/File_A1.txt',
  root: 'C:/',
  basename: 'File_A1.txt',
  dirname: 'C:/Users/JohnDoe/Example/Folder_A',
  stem: 'File_A1',
  ext: '.txt',
  suffixes: [ 'txt' ]
}
```

### containsImmediateChildSync(child) <a id = "containsImmediateChildSync"></a>

**Synchronously** checks whether an immediate child can be found within the path.

- Parameters:

  - `child` -- `string | Path` -- Either a basename to search (when type is detected as a string) or a Path instance of the expected child.

- Returns:
  - `Path | false` - Returns `false` if no such child exists within the underlying filepath, otherwise returns the child as a `Path` instance.

```
import Path from "pathlib-js"
const fp1 = new Path("C:\\Users\\JohnDoe\\Example\\Folder_A");
console.log(fp1.containsImmediateChildSync("File_90012321.txt"));
console.log(fp1.containsImmediateChildSync("File_A1.txt"));

> false
> Path {
  path: 'C:/Users/JohnDoe/Example/Folder_A/File_A1.txt',
  root: 'C:/',
  basename: 'File_A1.txt',
  dirname: 'C:/Users/JohnDoe/Example/Folder_A',
  stem: 'File_A1',
  ext: '.txt',
  suffixes: [ 'txt' ]
}
```

Commit message:

Enhanced the parent() method.
- The method now accepts an optional numIncrements parameter, which
allows for retrieving higher-order ancestor directories as Path
instances.
- Added additional tests for the parent() method working on Unix.
- Updated documentation for the numIncrements parameter to the parent()
method.

docs/Filepath-Parent-Type-Stats-Permissions.md, after:

# Filepath Status, Types, Existence, Permissions, etc.

## Associated Path Methods

- <a href = "#exists">exists()</a>
- <a href = "#existsSync">existsSync()</a>
- <a href = "#isDirectory">isDirectory()</a>
- <a href = "#isDirectorySync">isDirectorySync()</a>
- <a href = "#isFile">isFile()</a>
- <a href = "#isFileSync">isFileSync()</a>
- <a href = "#isSymbolicLink">isSymbolicLink()</a>
- <a href = "#isSymbolicLinkSync">isSymbolicLinkSync()</a>
- <a href = "#isSocket">isSocket()</a>
- <a href = "#isSocketSync">isSocketSync()</a>
- <a href = "#isFIFO">isFIFO()</a>
- <a href = "#isFIFOSync">isFIFOSync()</a>
- <a href = "#access">access()</a>
- <a href = "#accessSync">accessSync()</a>
- <a href = "#readLink">readLink()</a>
- <a href = "#readLinkSync">readLinkSync()</a>
- <a href = "#parent">parent()</a>
- <a href = "#containsImmediateChild">containsImmediateChild()</a>
- <a href = "#containsImmediateChildSync">containsImmediateChildSync()</a>

## File Structure Example for this API

The following hypothetical folder structure will be used as a demonstration of the API.

```
Example
├── Folder_A
│   ├── File_A1.txt
│   ├── File_A2.txt
│   └── File_B1_Symlink -> c:/Users/JohnDoe/Example/Folder_B/File_B1.json
└── Folder_B
    ├── File_B1.json
    └── File_B2.json
```

### exists() <a id = "exists"></a>

**Asynchronously** returns a boolean of whether the underlying filepath exists.

- Returns:
  - `Promise<boolean>` - true or false outcome of whether the filepath exists in the system.

```
import Path from "pathlib-js"
const ES5CompatibilityWrapper = async () => {
  const fp1 = new Path("C:\\Users\\JohnDoe\\Example\\FolderA\\File_A1.txt");
  const fp2 = new Path("C:\\Users\\JohnDoe\\Example\\FolderA\\File9001.txt");
  console.log(await fp1.exists());
  console.log(await fp2.exists());
};

ES5CompatibilityWrapper();

> true
> false
```

### existsSync() <a id = "existsSync"></a>

**Synchronously** returns a boolean of whether the underlying filepath exists.

- Returns:
  - `boolean` - true or false outcome of whether the filepath exists in the system.

```
import Path from "pathlib-js"
const fp1 = new Path("C:\\Users\\JohnDoe\\Example\\FolderA\\File_A1.txt");
const fp2 = new Path("C:\\Users\\JohnDoe\\Example\\FolderA\\File9001.txt");
console.log(fp1.existsSync());
console.log(fp2.existsSync());

> true
> false
```

### isDirectory() <a id = "isDirectory"></a>

**Asynchronously** returns a boolean of whether the underlying filepath is a directory()

- Returns:
  - `Promise<boolean>` - true or false outcome of whether the filepath is an existing directory.

```
import Path from "pathlib-js"
const ES5CompatibilityWrapper = async () => {
  const fp1 = new Path("C:\\Users\\JohnDoe\\Example\\FolderA");
  const fp2 = new Path("C:\\Users\\JohnDoe\\Example\\FolderA\\File_A1.txt");
  console.log(await fp1.isDirectory());
  console.log(await fp2.isDirectory());
};

ES5CompatibilityWrapper();

> true
> false
```

### isDirectorySync() <a id = "isDirectorySync"></a>

**Synchronously** returns a boolean of whether the underlying filepath exists.

- Returns:
  - `boolean` - true or false outcome of whether the filepath is an existing directory.

```
import Path from "pathlib-js"
const fp1 = new Path("C:\\Users\\JohnDoe\\Example\\FolderA");
const fp2 = new Path("C:\\Users\\JohnDoe\\Example\\FolderA\\File_A1.txt");
console.log(fp1.isDirectorySync());
console.log(fp2.isDirectorySync());

> true
> false
```

### isFile() <a id = "isFile"></a>

**Asynchronously** returns a boolean of whether the underlying filepath isFile.

- Returns:
  - `Promise<boolean>` - true or false outcome of whether the filepath is an existing file.

```
import Path from "pathlib-js"
const ES5CompatibilityWrapper = async () => {
  const fp1 = new Path("C:\\Users\\JohnDoe\\Example\\FolderA\\File_A1.txt");
  const fp2 = new Path("C:\\Users\\JohnDoe\\Example\\FolderA");
  console.log(await fp1.isFile());
  console.log(await fp2.isFile());
};

ES5CompatibilityWrapper();

> true
> false
```

### isFileSync() <a id = "isFileSync"></a>

**Synchronously** returns a boolean of whether the underlying filepath is a file.

- Returns:
  - `boolean` - true or false outcome of whether the filepath is an existing file.

```
import Path from "pathlib-js"
const fp1 = new Path("C:\\Users\\JohnDoe\\Example\\FolderA\\File_A1.txt");
const fp2 = new Path("C:\\Users\\JohnDoe\\Example\\FolderA");
console.log(fp1.isFileSync());
console.log(fp2.isFileSync());

> true
> false
```

### isSymbolicLink([verbose]) <a id = "isSymbolicLink"></a>

⚠️ **IT IS STRONGLY ADVISED TO NOT USE THIS METHOD ON WINDOWS OS.** ⚠️

**Asynchronously** returns a boolean of whether the underlying filepath is a symlink.

- Parameters:

  - `verbose` -- `boolean` -- On Windows systems, whether to verbosly warn about the potential inaccuracy of this method. Defaults to true.

- Returns:
  - `Promise<boolean>` - true or false outcome of whether the filepath is a symbolic link.

```
import Path from "pathlib-js"
const ES5CompatibilityWrapper = async () => {
  const fp1 = new Path("C:\\Users\\JohnDoe\\Example\\FolderB\\File_B1.json");
  const fp2 = new Path("C:\\Users\\JohnDoe\\Example\\FolderA\\File_B1_Symlink.symlink");
  console.log(await fp1.isSymbolicLink());
  console.log(await fp2.isSymbolicLink());
};

ES5CompatibilityWrapper();

> true
> false
```

### isSymbolicLinkSync([verbose]) <a id = "isSymbolicLinkSync"></a>

⚠️ **IT IS STRONGLY ADVISED TO NOT USE THIS METHOD ON WINDOWS OS.** ⚠️

**Synchronously** returns a boolean of whether the underlying filepath is a symlink.

- Parameters:

  - `verbose` -- `boolean` -- On Windows systems, whether to verbosly warn about the potential inaccuracy of this method. Defaults to true.

- Returns:
  - `boolean` - true or false outcome of whether the filepath is a symbolic link.

```
import Path from "pathlib-js"
const fp1 = new Path("C:\\Users\\JohnDoe\\Example\\FolderB\\File_B1.json");
const fp2 = new Path("C:\\Users\\JohnDoe\\Example\\FolderA\\File_B1_Symlink.symlink");
console.log(fp1.isSymbolicLinkSync());
console.log(fp2.isSymbolicLinkSync());

> true
> false
```

### isSocket() <a id = "isSocket"></a>

**Asynchronously** returns a boolean of whether the underlying filepath points to a socket.

- Returns:
  - `Promise<boolean>` - true or false outcome of whether the filepath is a socket file.

### isSocketSync() <a id = "isSocketSync"></a>

**Synchronously** returns a boolean of whether the underlying filepath points to a socket.

- Returns:
  - `boolean` - true or false outcome of whether the filepath is a socket file.

### isFIFO() <a id = "isFIFO"></a>

**Asynchronously** returns a boolean of whether the underlying filepath points to a first-in-first-out queue.

- Returns:
  - `Promise<boolean>` - true or false outcome of whether the filepath is a FIFO queue.

### isFIFOSync() <a id = "isFIFOSync"></a>

**Synchronously** returns a boolean of whether the underlying filepath points to a first-in-first-out queue.

- Returns:
  - `boolean` - true or false outcome of whether the filepath is a FIFO queue.

### access([mode]) <a id = "access"></a>

**Asynchronously** ascertains the permissions the current process has on the underlying filepath.

- Parameters:

  - `mode` -- `number` -- A NodeJS `fs.constants` number to check for a particular permission or union of permissions. Defaults to `undefined`.

- Returns:
  - `Promise<boolean | AccessResult>` - If `mode` was provided, returns a boolean of whether the underlying path was the indicated permission. Otherwise, returns a `AccessResult` Object which has the following properties:
    - `canRead` -- `boolean` - Whether the current process has read access to the underlying filepath.
    - `canWrite` -- `boolean` - Whether the current process has write access to the underlying filepath.
    - `canExecute` -- `boolean` - Whether the underlying filepath can be executed by the current process.

### accessSync([mode]) <a id = "accessSync"></a>

**Synchronously** ascertains the permissions the current process has on the underlying filepath.

- Parameters:

  - `mode` -- `number` -- A NodeJS `fs.constants` number to check for a particular permission or union of permissions. Defaults to `undefined`.

- Returns:
  - `boolean | AccessResult` - If `mode` was provided, returns a boolean of whether the underlying path was the indicated permission. Otherwise, returns a `AccessResult` Object which has the following properties:
    - `canRead` -- `boolean` - Whether the current process has read access to the underlying filepath.
    - `canWrite` -- `boolean` - Whether the current process has write access to the underlying filepath.
    - `canExecute` -- `boolean` - Whether the underlying filepath can be executed by the current process.

### readLink() <a id = "readLink"></a>

**Asynchronously** determines the filepath that a symlink is pointing at. 
**It is assumed that the underlying filepath invoking this method is a symlink. An error will be thrown if this is not the case.**

- Returns:
  - `Promise<Path>` - Returns the filepath that the symlink is pointing to, as a `Path` instance.

```
import Path from "pathlib-js"
const ES5CompatibilityWrapper = async () => {
  const filePointedTo = new Path("C:\\Users\\JohnDoe\\Example\\Folder_A\\File_A1.txt");
  const symlinkPath = await filePointedTo.makeSymlink(
    "C:\\Users\\JohnDoe\\Example\\Folder_B\\SymlinkExample.symlink",
    true
  );
  console.log((await symlinkPath.readLink()).path === filePointedTo.path);
};
ES5CompatibilityWrapper();

> true
```

### readLinkSync() <a id = "readLinkSync"></a>

**Synchronously** determines the filepath that a symlink is pointing at. 
**It is assumed that the underlying filepath invoking this method is a symlink. An error will be thrown if this is not the case.**

- Returns:
  - `Path` - Returns the filepath that the symlink is pointing to, as a `Path` instance.

```
import Path from "pathlib-js"
const filePointedTo = new Path("C:\\Users\\JohnDoe\\Example\\Folder_A\\File_A1.txt");
const symlinkPath = filePointedTo.makeSymlinkSync(
  "C:\\Users\\JohnDoe\\Example\\Folder_B\\SymlinkExample.symlink",
  true
);
console.log(symlinkPath.readLinkSync().path === filePointedTo.path);

> true
```


### parent([numIncrements]) <a id = "parent"></a>

Retrieves the parent or ancestor directory.

- Parameters:
  - `numIncrements` -- `number | undefined` -- The number of directory levels to increment in order to retrieve an ancestor filepath. 
    - If `undefined` (the default), then the immediate parent directory is retrieved, if appropriate. 
    - If 0 or less, then a copy of the current `Path` instance is returned.
    - If the value of this parameter is greater than or equal to the number of levels between the filepath and the root directory, the latter is return as a `Path` instance

- Returns:
  - `Path` - The parent or otherwise higher-order ancestor directory.

```
import Path from "pathlib-js"
const fp1 = new Path("C:\\Users\\JohnDoe\\Example\\FolderA\\File_A1.txt");
console.log(fp1.parent().path);

> "C:/Users/JohnDoe/Example/FolderA"
```

### containsImmediateChild(child) <a id = "containsImmediateChild"></a>

**Asynchronously** checks whether an indicated basename string or Path instance is a child path of the current Path instance.

- Parameters:

  - `child` -- `string | Path` -- Either a basename to search (when type is detected as a string) or a Path instance of the expected child.

- Returns:
  - `Promise<Path | false>` - Returns `false` if no such child exists within the underlying filepath, otherwise returns the child as a `Path` instance.

```
import Path from "pathlib-js"
const ES5CompatibilityWrapper = async () => {
  const fp1 = new Path("C:\\Users\\JohnDoe\\Example\\Folder_A");
  console.log(await fp1.containsImmediateChild("File_90012321.txt"));
  console.log(await fp1.containsImmediateChild("File_A1.txt"));
};
ES5CompatibilityWrapper();

> false
> Path {
  path: 'C:/Users/JohnDoe/Example/Folder_A/File_A1.txt',
  root: 'C:/',
  basename: 'File_A1.txt',
  dirname: 'C:/Users/JohnDoe/Example/Folder_A',
  stem: 'File_A1',
  ext: '.txt',
  suffixes: [ 'txt' ]
}
```

### containsImmediateChildSync(child) <a id = "containsImmediateChildSync"></a>

**Synchronously** checks whether an immediate child can be found within the path.

- Parameters:

  - `child` -- `string | Path` -- Either a basename to search (when type is detected as a string) or a Path instance of the expected child.

- Returns:
  - `Path | false` - Returns `false` if no such child exists within the underlying filepath, otherwise returns the child as a `Path` instance.

```
import Path from "pathlib-js"
const fp1 = new Path("C:\\Users\\JohnDoe\\Example\\Folder_A");
console.log(fp1.containsImmediateChildSync("File_90012321.txt"));
console.log(fp1.containsImmediateChildSync("File_A1.txt"));

> false
> Path {
  path: 'C:/Users/JohnDoe/Example/Folder_A/File_A1.txt',
  root: 'C:/',
  basename: 'File_A1.txt',
  dirname: 'C:/Users/JohnDoe/Example/Folder_A',
  stem: 'File_A1',
  ext: '.txt',
  suffixes: [ 'txt' ]
}
```
